.TH "UNICORN" "3" "Jan 14th 2026" "Unicorn 1.3.2"
.SH NAME
uni_casefoldcmp \- case-insensitive string comparison
.SH LIBRARY
Embeddable Unicode Algorithms (libunicorn, -lunicorn)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unicorn.h>
.PP
.BI "unistat uni_casefoldcmp(unicasefold " casing ", const void *" s1 ", unisize " s1_len ", uniattr " s1_attr ", const void *" s2 ", unisize " s2_len ", uniattr " s2_attr ", bool *" result ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function checks if \f[I]s1\f[R] and \f[I]s2\f[R] are a caseless match in casing form \f[I]casing\f[R].
If they match, then the implementation writes \f[C]true\f[R] to \f[I]result\f[R] else it writes \f[C]false\f[R].
.PP
The length and text attributes for \f[I]s1\f[R] are specified by \f[I]s1_len\f[R] and \f[I]s1_attr\f[R].
The length and text attributes for \f[I]s2\f[R] are specified by \f[I]s2_len\f[R] and \f[I]s2_attr\f[R].
If \f[I]s1_len\f[R] is -1, then the implementation assumes \f[I]s1\f[R] is null-terminated.
If \f[I]s2_len\f[R] is -1, then the implementation assumes \f[I]s2\f[R] is null-terminated.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.TP
UNI_OK
If \f[C]text\f[R] was checked successfully.
.TP
UNI_BAD_OPERATION
If \f[I]s1\f[R] or \f[I]s2\f[R] are null, or if \f[I]result\f[R] is null.
.TP
UNI_BAD_ENCODING
If \f[I]s1\f[R] or \f[I]s2\f[R] is not well-formed (checks are omitted if the corresponding \f[B]uniattr\f[R](3) has \f[B]UNI_TRUST\f[R](3)).
.TP
UNI_FEATURE_DISABLED
If the library was built without support for case folding.
.TP
UNI_NO_MEMORY
If dynamic memory allocation failed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR uniattr (3),
.BR UNI_TRUST (3),
.BR unicasefold (3),
.BR unisize (3)
.SH AUTHOR
.UR https://railgunlabs.com
Railgun Labs
.UE .
.SH INTERNET RESOURCES
The online documentation is published on the
.UR https://railgunlabs.com/unicorn
Railgun Labs website
.UE .
.SH LICENSING
Unicorn is distributed with its end-user license agreement (EULA).
Please review the agreement for information on terms & conditions for accessing or otherwise using Unicorn and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
