.TH "UNICORN" "3" "Dec 6th 2025" "Unicorn 1.3.1"
.SH NAME
uni_seterrfunc \- receive diagnostic events
.SH LIBRARY
Embeddable Unicode Algorithms (libunicorn, -lunicorn)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unicorn.h>
.PP
.BI "void uni_seterrfunc(void *" user_data ", unierrfunc " callback ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Associate the function \f[I]callback\f[R] with the library's internal error logger.
Anytime a function returns an error \f[I]callback\f[R] will be invoked with a description of the error.
It is up to the implementation of \f[I]callback\f[R] to be thread safe.
.PP
The implementation generally invokes \f[I]callback\f[R] at the moment the error occurs.
Callers are encouraged to set breakpoints in their implementation of \f[I]callback\f[R] and view the stack trace to discover the exact cause of the error.
.SH EXAMPLES
This example registers a custom error callback with Unicorn.
This callback will be invoked when an error occurs in Unicorn.
In practice, you can set a breakpoint within the function for your debugger to pause on and then troubleshoot the error by inspecting the error message.
.PP
.in +4n
.EX
#include <unicorn.h>
#include <stdio.h>

static void on_error(void *user_data, const char *message)
{
    puts(message);
}

int main(void)
{
    uni_seterrfunc(NULL, on_error);
    return 0;
}
.EE
.in
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR unimemfunc (3),
.BR unierrfunc (3)
.SH AUTHOR
.UR https://railgunlabs.com
Railgun Labs
.UE .
.SH INTERNET RESOURCES
The online documentation is published on the
.UR https://railgunlabs.com/unicorn
Railgun Labs website
.UE .
.SH LICENSING
Unicorn is distributed with its end-user license agreement (EULA).
Please review the agreement for information on terms & conditions for accessing or otherwise using Unicorn and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
