.TH "UNICORN" "3" "Jan 14th 2026" "Unicorn 1.3.2"
.SH NAME
uni_numval \- numeric property
.SH LIBRARY
Embeddable Unicode Algorithms (libunicorn, -lunicorn)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unicorn.h>
.PP
.BI "const char *uni_numval(unichar " c ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function returns the \f[C]Numeric_Value\f[R] character property for the code point \f[I]c\f[R].
If the input character does not have a numeric value, then null is returned.
.PP
The numeric value is returned as a null-terminated C string in decimal notation.
That means if the character has a numeric value of -1/2, which is the case for TIBETAN DIGIT HALF ZERO (U+0F33), it would be returned as the string "-0.5".
The caller can parse the string into an integer or floating-point storage format as needed.
.PP
Support for this character property must be enabled in the JSON configuration file otherwise the function will always return null.
.PP
.in +4n
.EX
{
    "characterProperties": [
        "Numeric_Value"
    ]
}
.EE
.in
.SH RETURN VALUE
The value of the \f[C]Numeric_Value\f[R] character property in decimal notation or null if the character does not have a numeric value.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR unichar (3)
.SH AUTHOR
.UR https://railgunlabs.com
Railgun Labs
.UE .
.SH INTERNET RESOURCES
The online documentation is published on the
.UR https://railgunlabs.com/unicorn
Railgun Labs website
.UE .
.SH LICENSING
Unicorn is distributed with its end-user license agreement (EULA).
Please review the agreement for information on terms & conditions for accessing or otherwise using Unicorn and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
