.TH "UNICORN" "3" "Dec 6th 2025" "Unicorn 1.3.1"
.SH NAME
uni_normqchk \- normalization quick check
.SH LIBRARY
Embeddable Unicode Algorithms (libunicorn, -lunicorn)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unicorn.h>
.PP
.BI "unistat uni_normqchk(uninormform " form ", const void *" text ", unisize " text_len ", uniattr " text_attr ", uninormchk *" result ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function performs a quick check to see if \f[I]text\f[R] is, is not, or might be normalized.
For a definitive yes/no answer, use \f[B]uni_normchk\f[R](3).
.PP
The implementation behaves as follows:
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]result\f[R] is set to \f[B]UNI_YES\f[R] if all characters in \f[I]text\f[R] quick check to yes.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]result\f[R] is set to \f[B]UNI_NO\f[R] if at least one character in \f[I]text\f[R] is quick checks to no.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]result\f[R] is set to \f[B]UNI_MAYBE\f[R] if at least one character in \f[I]text\f[R] quick checks to maybe and no characters quick check to no.
.RE
.PP
Support for normalization quick check must be enabled in the JSON configuration file.
.PP
.in +4n
.EX
{
    "algorithms": {
        "normalizationQuickCheck": true
    }
}
.EE
.in
.SH RETURN VALUE
.TP
UNI_OK
On success.
.TP
UNI_BAD_OPERATION
If \f[I]text\f[R] or \f[I]result\f[R] is null.
.TP
UNI_BAD_ENCODING
If \f[I]text\f[R] is malformed; this is never returned if \f[I]text_attr\f[R] has \f[B]UNI_TRUST\f[R](3).
.TP
UNI_FEATURE_DISABLED
If Unicorn was built without support for \f[I]form\f[R].
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR uni_normchk (3),
.BR uninormchk (3),
.BR UNI_TRUST (3),
.BR uninormform (3),
.BR unisize (3),
.BR uniattr (3)
.SH AUTHOR
.UR https://railgunlabs.com
Railgun Labs
.UE .
.SH INTERNET RESOURCES
The online documentation is published on the
.UR https://railgunlabs.com/unicorn
Railgun Labs website
.UE .
.SH LICENSING
Unicorn is distributed with its end-user license agreement (EULA).
Please review the agreement for information on terms & conditions for accessing or otherwise using Unicorn and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
