.TH "UNICORN" "3" "Feb 18th 2025" "Unicorn 1.0.5"
.SH NAME
UNI_NULIFY \- null terminated output
.SH LIBRARY
Embeddable Unicode Algorithms (libunicorn, -lunicorn)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unicorn.h>
.PP
.B #define UNI_NULIFY 0x80u
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Text attribute bit flag that indicates that the output buffer must be null terminated by the implementation.
.PP
Some functions, like \f[B]uni_norm\f[R](3), accept an input buffer and an output buffer.
The output buffer is the destination buffer that the implementation writes encoded characters to.
When this flag is applied to the output buffer the implementation guarantees a NUL character (U+0000) is appended, even if it means truncating the last non-null character.
Conceptually, this behavior is like the BSD function \f[C]strlcpy\f[R] which also guarantees the destination buffer is null terminated.
.PP
The implementation will never append an extraneous null character if the output buffer is already null terminated.
.PP
Using this flag with an input buffer will produce \f[B]UNI_BAD_OPERATION\f[R].
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR uni_norm (3),
.BR unistat (3)
.SH AUTHOR
.UR https://railgunlabs.com
Railgun Labs
.UE .
.SH INTERNET RESOURCES
The online documentation is published on the
.UR https://railgunlabs.com/unicorn
Railgun Labs website
.UE .
.SH LICENSING
Unicorn is distributed with its end-user license agreement (EULA).
Please review the agreement for information on terms & conditions for accessing or otherwise using Unicorn and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
