.TH "UNICORN" "3" "Feb 18th 2025" "Unicorn 1.0.5"
.SH NAME
uni_decompress \- decompress text
.SH LIBRARY
Embeddable Unicode Algorithms (libunicorn, -lunicorn)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unicorn.h>
.PP
.BI "unistat uni_decompress(const uint8_t *" buffer ", size_t " buffer_length ", void *" text ", unisize *" text_len ", uniattr " text_attr ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Decompress \f[I]buffer\f[R] and write the result to \f[I]text\f[R].
The encoding of \f[I]text_attr\f[R] need not match the encoding of the original uncompressed text.
.PP
The capacity of \f[I]text\f[R] is specified by \f[I]text_len\f[R].
If \f[I]text\f[R] is not \f[C]NULL\f[R], then the implementation writes to \f[I]text_len\f[R] the total number of code units written to \f[I]text\f[R].
If the capacity of \f[I]text\f[R] is insufficient, then \f[B]UNI_NO_SPACE\f[R] is returned otherwise it returns \f[B]UNI_OK\f[R].
.PP
If \f[I]text\f[R] is \f[C]NULL\f[R], then \f[I]text_len\f[R] must be zero and the implementation writes to \f[I]text_len\f[R] the number of code units in the fully decompressed text and returns \f[B]UNI_OK\f[R].
Call the function this way to compute the total length of the uncompressed text before calling it again with a sufficiently sized buffer.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.TP
UNI_OK
On success.
.TP
UNI_NO_SPACE
If \f[I]text\f[R] is not large enough.
.TP
UNI_BAD_OPERATION
If \f[I]buffer\f[R] is \f[C]NULL\f[R], \f[I]text\f[R] is \f[C]NULL\f[R] and \f[I]text_len\f[R] is non-zero.
.TP
UNI_FEATURE_DISABLED
If Unicorn was configured without support for the compression algorithm.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR unistat (3),
.BR uni_compress (3),
.BR unisize (3),
.BR uniattr (3)
.SH AUTHOR
.UR https://railgunlabs.com
Railgun Labs
.UE .
.SH INTERNET RESOURCES
The online documentation is published on the
.UR https://railgunlabs.com/unicorn
Railgun Labs website
.UE .
.SH LICENSING
Unicorn is distributed with its end-user license agreement (EULA).
Please review the agreement for information on terms & conditions for accessing or otherwise using Unicorn and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
