.TH "UNICORN" "3" "Dec 6th 2025" "Unicorn 1.3.1"
.SH NAME
uni_convert \- convert encoding forms
.SH LIBRARY
Embeddable Unicode Algorithms (libunicorn, -lunicorn)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unicorn.h>
.PP
.BI "unistat uni_convert(const void *" src ", unisize " src_len ", uniattr " src_attr ", void *" dst ", unisize *" dst_len ", uniattr " dst_attr ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function converts the text pointed to by \f[I]src\f[R], which is in the encoding form specified by \f[I]src_attr\f[R], to the encoding specified by \f[I]dst_attr\f[R] and writes the result to \f[I]dst\f[R].
If \f[I]src_len\f[R] is -1, then \f[I]src\f[R] is assumed to be null-terminated.
.PP
If \f[I]dst\f[R] isn't large enough to contain the re-encoded \f[I]src\f[R] text, then it will be truncated to the nearest code point boundary and \f[B]UNI_NO_SPACE\f[R] will be returned.
If \f[I]dst\f[R] is large enough, then \f[B]UNI_OK\f[R] is returned.
.PP
If \f[I]dst\f[R] is null and \f[I]dst_len\f[R] is zero, then the implementation writes to \f[I]dst_len\f[R] the number of code units in the fully re-encoded text and returns \f[B]UNI_OK\f[R].
Call the function this way to first compute the total length of the destination buffer before calling it again with a sufficiently sized buffer.
.PP
If \f[I]src_attr\f[R] and \f[I]dst_attr\f[R] are identical, then this function behaves like \f[B]memcpy\f[R](3).
.SH RETURN VALUE
.TP
UNI_OK
On success.
.TP
UNI_BAD_OPERATION
If \f[I]src\f[R] or \f[C]dest_len\f[R] are null.
.TP
UNI_BAD_ENCODING
If \f[I]src\f[R] is not well-formed (checks are omitted if \f[I]src_attr\f[R] has \f[B]UNI_TRUST\f[R](3)).
.TP
UNI_NO_SPACE
If \f[C]dest\f[R] is too small.
.TP
UNI_FEATURE_DISABLED
If the \f[I]src_attr\f[R] and \f[I]dst_attr\f[R] encoding forms are disabled.
.SH EXAMPLES
This example re-encodes text from UTF-32 to UTF-8.
It uses \f[C]char32_t\f[R] and 'U' literal strings from C11.
.PP
.in +4n
.EX
#include <unicorn.h>
#include <uchar.h>
#include <stdio.h>

int main(void)
{
    const char32_t in[] = U"👨🏻‍🚀🧑🏼‍🚀 landed on the 🌕 in 1969.";
    char out[64];
    unisize outlen = sizeof(out);

    if (uni_convert(in, -1, UNI_UTF32, out, &outlen, UNI_UTF8) != UNI_OK)
    {
        // something went wrong
        return 1;
    }

    printf("%.*s", outlen, out);
    return 0;
}
.EE
.in
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR unistat (3),
.BR UNI_TRUST (3),
.BR unisize (3),
.BR uniattr (3)
.SH AUTHOR
.UR https://railgunlabs.com
Railgun Labs
.UE .
.SH INTERNET RESOURCES
The online documentation is published on the
.UR https://railgunlabs.com/unicorn
Railgun Labs website
.UE .
.SH LICENSING
Unicorn is distributed with its end-user license agreement (EULA).
Please review the agreement for information on terms & conditions for accessing or otherwise using Unicorn and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
