.TH "UNICORN" "3" "Nov 7th 2025" "Unicorn 1.3.0"
.SH NAME
uni_casefold \- perform case folding
.SH LIBRARY
Embeddable Unicode Algorithms (libunicorn, -lunicorn)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unicorn.h>
.PP
.BI "unistat uni_casefold(unicasefold " casing ", const void *" src ", unisize " src_len ", uniattr " src_attr ", void *" dst ", unisize *" dst_len ", uniattr " dst_attr ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Case folds \f[I]src\f[R] to casing form \f[I]casing\f[R] and writes the result to \f[I]dst\f[R].
The capacity of \f[I]dst\f[R] is specified by \f[I]dst_len\f[R].
.PP
If \f[I]dst\f[R] is not \f[C]NULL\f[R], then the implementation writes to \f[I]dst_len\f[R] the total number of code units written to \f[I]dst\f[R].
If the capacity of \f[I]dst\f[R] is insufficient, then \f[B]UNI_NO_SPACE\f[R] is returned otherwise it returns \f[B]UNI_OK\f[R].
.PP
If \f[I]dst\f[R] is \f[C]NULL\f[R], then \f[I]dst_len\f[R] must be zero and the implementation writes to \f[I]dst_len\f[R] the number of code units in the fully case converted text and returns \f[B]UNI_OK\f[R].
Call the function this way to compute the total length of the destination buffer before calling it again with a sufficiently sized buffer.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.TP
UNI_OK
If \f[C]text\f[R] was checked successfully.
.TP
UNI_BAD_OPERATION
If \f[C]text\f[R] is \f[C]NULL\f[R], \f[C]length\f[R] is negative, or \f[C]result\f[R] is \f[C]NULL\f[R].
.TP
UNI_BAD_ENCODING
If \f[I]src\f[R] is not well-formed (checks are omitted if \f[I]src_attr\f[R] has \f[B]UNI_TRUST\f[R](3)).
.TP
UNI_NO_SPACE
If \f[I]dst\f[R] was not large enough.
.TP
UNI_FEATURE_DISABLED
If the library was built without support for case folding.
.TP
UNI_NO_MEMORY
If dynamic memory allocation failed.
.SH EXAMPLES
This example casefolds a string for canonical caseless comparison.
.PP
The example will produce an output string that is longer than the input string.
This is because the German 'ß' (U+00DF) case folds to 'ss' (U+0073 U+0073) and the Latin small letter 'ö' with diaeresis (U+00F6) canonically normalizes to an 'o' (U+006F) followed by a combining diaeresis character (U+0308).
.PP
.in +4n
.EX
#include <unicorn.h>
#include <stdio.h>

int main(void)
{
    const char *in = u8"Stößen";
    char out[32];
    unisize outlen = sizeof(out);

    if (uni_casefold(UNI_CANONICAL, in, -1, UNI_UTF8, out, &outlen, UNI_UTF8) != UNI_OK)
    {
        // something went wrong
        return 1;
    }

    printf("%.*s", outlen, out); // prints "stössen"
    return 0;
}
.EE
.in
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR unistat (3),
.BR UNI_TRUST (3),
.BR unicasefold (3),
.BR unisize (3),
.BR uniattr (3)
.SH AUTHOR
.UR https://railgunlabs.com
Railgun Labs
.UE .
.SH INTERNET RESOURCES
The online documentation is published on the
.UR https://railgunlabs.com/unicorn
Railgun Labs website
.UE .
.SH LICENSING
Unicorn is distributed with its end-user license agreement (EULA).
Please review the agreement for information on terms & conditions for accessing or otherwise using Unicorn and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
