.TH "UNICORN" "3" "Dec 6th 2025" "Unicorn 1.3.1"
.SH NAME
uni_compress \- compress text
.SH LIBRARY
Embeddable Unicode Algorithms (libunicorn, -lunicorn)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unicorn.h>
.PP
.BI "unistat uni_compress(const void *" text ", unisize " text_len ", uniattr " text_attr ", uint8_t *" buffer ", size_t *" buffer_length ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function compresses \f[I]text\f[R] using Binary Ordered Compression for Unicode (BOCU-1) and writes the results to \f[I]buffer\f[R].
Text is compressed based on its code points, i.e. UTF-8, 16, and 32 will compress to the same byte sequence.
.PP
The capacity of \f[I]buffer\f[R] is specified by \f[I]buffer_length\f[R].
The implementation always writes to \f[I]buffer_length\f[R] the total number of bytes in the fully compressed text.
If the capacity of \f[I]buffer\f[R] is insufficient, then \f[B]UNI_NO_SPACE\f[R] is returned.
If \f[I]buffer\f[R] is null, then \f[I]buffer_length\f[R] must be zero.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.TP
UNI_OK
On success.
.TP
UNI_NO_SPACE
If \f[I]buffer\f[R] is not large enough.
.TP
UNI_BAD_OPERATION
If \f[I]text\f[R] or \f[I]buffer_length\f[R] is null.
.TP
UNI_BAD_ENCODING
If \f[I]text\f[R] is not well-formed (checks are omitted if \f[I]text_attr\f[R] has \f[B]UNI_TRUST\f[R](3)).
.TP
UNI_FEATURE_DISABLED
If Unicorn was configured without support for the compression algorithm.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR unistat (3),
.BR UNI_TRUST (3),
.BR unisize (3),
.BR uniattr (3)
.SH AUTHOR
.UR https://railgunlabs.com
Railgun Labs
.UE .
.SH INTERNET RESOURCES
The online documentation is published on the
.UR https://railgunlabs.com/unicorn
Railgun Labs website
.UE .
.SH LICENSING
Unicorn is distributed with its end-user license agreement (EULA).
Please review the agreement for information on terms & conditions for accessing or otherwise using Unicorn and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
