.TH "UNICORN" "3" "Sep 9th 2025" "Unicorn 1.2.0"
.SH NAME
unicorn.h \- public interface for the Unicorn library
.SH LIBRARY
Embeddable Unicode Algorithms (libunicorn, -lunicorn)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unicorn.h>
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Unicorn is a Unicode® library written in C99 with no external dependencies.
It is highly customizable: support for Unicode algorithms and character properties can be toggled individually.
Disabling features reduces the size of the library which helps deploy it on hardware with limited resources, like embedded systems and IoT devices.
You can customize which features Unicorn is built with by editing the \f[C]features.json\f[R] file found in the source distribution of Unicorn.
The detailed schema for this JSON file is
.UR https://railgunlabs.com/unicorn/manual/feature-customization/
documented online
.UE .
.PP
Unicorn is compliant with the MISRA C:2012 standards.
It honors all Required, Mandatory, and most Advisory rules.
Deviations are documented here on the
.UR https://railgunlabs.com/unicorn/manual/misra-compliance/
projects webpage
.UE .
Users are encouraged to audit Unicorn and verify its level of conformance is acceptable.
.SS Library Configuration
Unicorn defines several foundational types that are used throughout the library.
An example would be the \f[B]unistat\f[R](3) type which represents a status code.
Most functions in Unicorn return a \f[B]unistat\f[R](3) value making for a consistent approach to error reporting.
Global features of the library can be queried and configured at runtime.
An example is the \f[B]uni_setmemfunc\f[R](3) function which allows overriding the dynamic allocator used by the library at runtime.
All interfaces that are globally applicable to the library are defined here.
.PP
Most functions in Unicorn return an element from the \f[B]unistat\f[R](3) enumeration indicating the success or failure status of an operation.
Each function documents the possible status codes it can return.
This narrows down which codes a caller must check for.
.PP
Unicorn is designed with performance in mind and minimizes dynamic memory allocations where possible.
In fact, most functions do not allocate memory at all!
Functions that can allocate memory are identified by having \f[B]UNI_NO_MEMORY\f[R] listed as a potential return value in their documentation.
.PP
By default, Unicorn uses the C standard memory allocators (\f[B]realloc\f[R](3) and \f[B]free\f[R](3)) for dynamic memory allocation.
Using \f[B]uni_setmemfunc\f[R](3) you can provide your own dynamic memory allocator.
.PP
If a dynamic memory allocation fails, then Unicorn will gracefully free all intermediate allocations and return \f[B]UNI_NO_MEMORY\f[R].
.TS
tab(;);
l l.
\fBFunctions\fR;\fBDescription\fR
_
\fBuni_getversion\fR(3);T{
Library version.
T}
\fBuni_getucdversion\fR(3);T{
Unicode standard version.
T}
\fBuni_setmemfunc\fR(3);T{
Custom memory allocator.
T}
\fBuni_seterrfunc\fR(3);T{
Receive diagnostic events.
T}

.T&
l l.
\fBDefines\fR;\fBDescription\fR
_
\fBUNI_SCALAR\fR(3);T{
Unicode scalar value.
T}
\fBUNI_UTF8\fR(3);T{
UTF-8 encoding form.
T}
\fBUNI_UTF16\fR(3);T{
UTF-16 encoding form.
T}
\fBUNI_UTF32\fR(3);T{
UTF-32 encoding form.
T}
\fBUNI_BIG\fR(3);T{
Big endian byte order.
T}
\fBUNI_LITTLE\fR(3);T{
Little endian byte order.
T}
\fBUNI_NATIVE\fR(3);T{
Native endian byte order.
T}
\fBUNI_TRUST\fR(3);T{
Well-formed text.
T}
\fBUNI_NULIFY\fR(3);T{
Null terminated output.
T}

.T&
l l.
\fBEnumerations\fR;\fBDescription\fR
_
\fBunistat\fR(3);T{
Status code.
T}
.TE
.SS Normalization
Unicode normalization transforms a string for the purposes of testing equivalence against another string.
There are three primary equivalence tests that can be performed:
.PP
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
Binary equivalence: The code points of two strings are compared.
.IP \[bu] 2
Canonical equivalence: The graphemes of two strings are compared.
.IP \[bu] 2
Compatibility equivalence: The abstract graphemes of two strings are compared.
.RE
.PP
Binary comparison refers to comparing the code points of two strings.
In C you can do this with \f[B]memcmp\f[R](3) or \f[B]strcmp\f[R](3).
The drawback of a binary comparison is that two strings that display the same might not be considered equivalent.
For example, the strings \f[C]U+0041 U+030A\f[R] and \f[C]U+00C5\f[R] represent the same grapheme, but would be considered inequivalent since their code points differ.
.PP
Canonical decomposition transforms the code points of a string in a predictable way that preserves graphemes.
After this transformation is performed on two strings their code points can be compared and, if identical, indicates their graphemes are equivalent.
.PP
Compatibility decomposition transforms the code points of a string in a predictable way that preserves the abstract meaning of the graphemes.
For example, the string \f[C]U+3392\f[R] and \f[C]U+004D U+0048 U+007A\f[R] have distinct visual appearances, but identical in meaning.
If these strings were compared canonically, they would be considered inequivalent, but when compared for compatibility they are considered equivalent.
.PP
Compatibility decomposition is unsupported by Unicorn because it has limited usefulness.
It's intended for fuzzy equivalence tests which are useful in search engines and database queries where the meaning of the string is more important than its visual appearance.
.PP
Unicode Normalization Forms are formally defined normalizations of Unicode strings which make it possible to determine whether any two Unicode strings are equivalent to each other.
Depending on the particular Unicode Normalization Form, that equivalence can either be a canonical or a compatibility equivalence.
Unicorn does not support normalization forms for testing compatibility equivalence, therefore only normalization forms for canonical equivalence testing are available.
.PP
To test two strings for canonical equivalence they must be normalized into a normalization form.
Unicorn supports two normalization forms for testing canonical equivalence: Normalization Form D (NFD) and Normalization Form C (NFC).
The former performs canonical decomposition and the latter canonical composition.
.PP
Canonical composition maps multiple code points to a precomposed code point.
For example, the string \f[C]U+006B U+0301\f[R] would canonically compose to the code point \f[C]U+1E31\f[R].
This is useful for reducing memory consumption and for legacy applications that cannot handle multi-code point graphemes gracefully.
.PP
Most real world text is stored in Normalization Form C (NFC).
This is because it is more compatible with strings converted from legacy encodings.
For example, text exclusively containing ASCII characters is left unaffected by all of the Normalization Forms which is effectively the same as saying that all Latin-1 text is already normalized to NFC.
.PP
The normal forms are not closed under string concatenation.
That is, even if two strings X and Y are normalized, their string concatenation X+Y is not guaranteed to be normalized.
By contrast, all Normalization Forms are closed under substringing.
For example, the extracted substring of a normalized string X is always normalized.
.PP
All normalization transformations are idempotent.
Once a string has been normalized it will never change if renormalized to the same normalization form.
In other words:
.PP
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
toNFC(toNFC(x)) = toNFC(x)
.IP \[bu] 2
toNFD(toNFD(x)) = toNFD(x)
.RE
.PP
More more information on Unicode normalization and normalization forms, see
.UR https://unicode.org/reports/tr15/
Unicode Technical Report #15
.UE .
.TS
tab(;);
l l.
\fBFunctions\fR;\fBDescription\fR
_
\fBuni_norm\fR(3);T{
Normalize text.
T}
\fBuni_normcmp\fR(3);T{
Canonical equivalence.
T}
\fBuni_normchk\fR(3);T{
Normalization check.
T}
\fBuni_normqchk\fR(3);T{
Normalization quick check.
T}

.T&
l l.
\fBEnumerations\fR;\fBDescription\fR
_
\fBuninormform\fR(3);T{
Unicode normalization forms.
T}
\fBuninormchk\fR(3);T{
Quick check constants.
T}
.TE
.SS Case Mapping
Case mapping is the process of transforming characters from one case to another for comparison or presentation.
.PP
Case conversion transforms text into a particular cased form.
The resulting text is presentable to an end user.
.PP
There are three case conversion operations:
.PP
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
Lowercase conversion
.IP \[bu] 2
Titlecase conversion
.IP \[bu] 2
Uppercase conversion
.RE
.PP
Case conversion is context sensitive which means characters are mapped based on their surrounding characters.
If only one character is being case converted in isolation then the following simple case mapping functions may be used:
.PP
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]uni_tolower\f[R](3)
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]uni_totitle\f[R](3)
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]uni_toupper\f[R](3)
.RE
.PP
Support for case conversion must be enabled in the JSON configuration file.
Where string values "lower", "title", and "upper" correspond to the \f[B]UNI_LOWER\f[R], \f[B]UNI_TITLE\f[R], and \f[B]UNI_UPPER\f[R] constants, respectively.
.PP
.in +4n
.EX
{
    "algorithms": {
        "caseConversion": [
            "lower",
            "title",
            "upper"
        ],
    }
}
.EE
.in
.PP
Case folding transforms text into a form intended for case-insensitive string comparisons.
Case folding is primarily based on the simple lowercase mappings, but there are instances where uppercase characters are used such as Cherokee characters.
A case folded string must never be displayed to an end-user.
It's only intended for internal case-insensitive comparisons.
.PP
There are two variations of case folding supported by Unicorn:
.PP
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
Default case folding
.IP \[bu] 2
Canonical case folding
.RE
.PP
Default case folding is intended for comparing strings for binary equivalence whereas canonical case folding is intended for testing canonical caseless equivalence.
.PP
Default case folding does not preserve normalization forms.
This means a string in a particular Unicode normalization form is not guaranteed to be in that same normalization form after being case folded.
.PP
Support for case folding must be enabled in the JSON configuration file.
Where string values "default" and "canonical" correspond to the \f[B]UNI_DEFAULT\f[R] and \f[B]UNI_CANONICAL\f[R] constants, respectively.
.PP
.in +4n
.EX
{
    "algorithms": {
        "caseFolding": [
            "default",
            "canonical"
        ],
    }
}
.EE
.in
.TS
tab(;);
l l.
\fBFunctions\fR;\fBDescription\fR
_
\fBuni_caseconv\fR(3);T{
Perform case conversion.
T}
\fBuni_caseconvchk\fR(3);T{
Check case status.
T}
\fBuni_casefold\fR(3);T{
Perform case folding.
T}
\fBuni_casefoldcmp\fR(3);T{
Case-insensitive string comparison.
T}
\fBuni_casefoldchk\fR(3);T{
Check case fold status.
T}

.T&
l l.
\fBEnumerations\fR;\fBDescription\fR
_
\fBunicaseconv\fR(3);T{
Case conversion operations.
T}
\fBunicasefold\fR(3);T{
Case folding operations.
T}
.TE
.SS Collation
Collation is the process and function of determining the sorting order of strings.
Collation varies according to language and culture: Germans, French and Swedes sort the same characters differently.
Unicorn is not an internationalization library therefore it does not contain language specific rules for sorting.
Instead, it uses the Default Collation Element Table (DUCET), which is a data table specifying the "default" collation order for all Unicode characters.
The goal of the DUCET is to provide a reasonable default ordering for all scripts, regardless of language.
.PP
To address the complexities of sorting, a multilevel comparison algorithm is employed.
In comparing two strings, the most important feature is the identity of the base letters.
For example, the difference between an A and a B. Accent differences are typically ignored, if the base letters differ.
Case differences (uppercase versus lowercase) are typically ignored, if the base letters or their accents differ.
The number of levels that are considered in comparison is known as the strength and are programmatically indicated by the elements of the \f[B]unistrength\f[R](3) enumeration.
.PP
Collation is one of the most performance-critical features in a system.
Consider the number of comparison operations that are involved in sorting or searching large databases.
When comparing strings multiple times it's recommended to generate and cache a sort key.
A sort key is an array of unsigned 16-bit integers that is generated from a single string in combination with other collation settings.
Sort keys must be generated with the same settings for their order to make sense.
Two sort keys can be compared to produce either a less than, greater than, or equal to result.
This result can be used with a sorting algorithm, like merge sort, to sort a collection of strings.
.PP
Sort keys are generated with \f[B]uni_sortkeymk\f[R](3).
This function accepts a string, collation settings, and produces the 16-bit sort key.
.PP
.in +4n
.EX
const char *string = "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog.";
uint16_t sortkey[16];
size_t sortkey_len = 16;
uni_sortkeymk(string, -1, UNI_UTF8, UNI_PRIMARY, UNI_SHIFTED, NULL, &sortkey_len);
.EE
.in
.PP
Once two sort keys are generated, they can be compared with \f[B]uni_sortkeycmp\f[R](3).
.PP
In the case of comparing one-off pairs of strings, generating a sort key makes less sense.
For these cases, a one-off comparison can be made using \f[B]uni_collate\f[R](3).
This function is conceptually like the \f[B]strcoll\f[R](3) function provided by the C standard library.
.PP
The Unicode Collation Algorithm provides a complete, unambiguous, specified ordering for all characters.
Canonical decomposition is performed as part of the algorithm therefore whether strings are normalized or not is irrelevant.
.PP
The relationship between two strings (two sort keys) is stable between versions of Unicode, however, the 16-bit values of a sort key may change.
If sort keys are retained in persistent storage, it is recommended to store the Unicode version they were generated against.
If the current version of the standard does not match what is stored, then all sort keys must be regenerated.
The version of the Unicode Standard can be obtained with \f[B]uni_getucdversion\f[R](3).
.TS
tab(;);
l l.
\fBFunctions\fR;\fBDescription\fR
_
\fBuni_sortkeymk\fR(3);T{
Make sort key.
T}
\fBuni_sortkeycmp\fR(3);T{
Compare sort keys.
T}
\fBuni_collate\fR(3);T{
Compare strings for sorting.
T}

.T&
l l.
\fBEnumerations\fR;\fBDescription\fR
_
\fBunistrength\fR(3);T{
Collation comparison levels.
T}
\fBuniweighting\fR(3);T{
Collation weighting algorithm.
T}
.TE
.SS Segmentation
A string of Unicode-encoded text often needs to be broken into text elements programmatically.
Common examples of text elements include user-perceived characters, words, and sentences.
Where these text elements begin and end is called the boundary and the process of boundary determination is called segmentation.
.PP
The precise determination of text elements varies according to orthographic conventions for a given script or language.
The goal of matching user perceptions cannot always be met exactly because the text alone does not always contain enough information to unambiguously decide boundaries.
For example, the period character (U+002E FULL STOP) is used ambiguously, sometimes for end-of-sentence purposes, sometimes for abbreviations, and sometimes for numbers.
In most cases, however, programmatic text boundaries can match user perceptions quite closely, although sometimes the best that can be done is to not surprise the user.
.PP
Unicorn supports grapheme, word, and sentence segmentation.
These text elements are identified by the following constants:
.PP
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]UNI_GRAPHEME\f[R]
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]UNI_WORD\f[R]
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]UNI_SENTENCE\f[R]
.RE
.PP
The algorithms for word and sentence segmentation are intended for languages that use white space to delimit words.
Thai, Lao, Khmer, Myanmar, and ideographic scripts such as Japanese and Chinese do not typically use spaces between words and require language-specific break rules.
Unicorn is not an internationalization library and therefore does not include rules specific to these languages.
.TS
tab(;);
l l.
\fBFunctions\fR;\fBDescription\fR
_
\fBuni_nextbrk\fR(3);T{
Compute next boundary.
T}
\fBuni_prevbrk\fR(3);T{
Compute preceding boundary.
T}

.T&
l l.
\fBEnumerations\fR;\fBDescription\fR
_
\fBunibreak\fR(3);T{
Detectable text elements.
T}
.TE
.SS Character Properties
The Unicode Character Database defines a large repertoire of character properties.
Most character properties are only applicable to specific applications, i.e. text shaping or rendering.
Other properties are informational, for example a character's name or the version it was introduced into the Unicode Standard.
Other properties are only relevant when implementing various Unicode algorithms.
The properties supported by Unicorn are those that are relevant when parsing plain text.
.PP
Character properties have a value associated with them.
For example, there are binary character properties which have the boolean values \f[C]true\f[R] and \f[C]false\f[R], enumeration character properties that have one of a fixed set of values, and string character properties which map to one or more code points.
Most Unicode character properties are binary properties.
.PP
All character properties have a default value.
The default value is the value a character property takes for an unassigned code point.
For example, the default value of a binary Unicode character property is always \f[C]false\f[R].
.PP
Updates to character properties in the Unicode Character Database may be required for any of three reasons:
.PP
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
To cover new characters added to the standard.
.IP \[bu] 2
To add new character properties to the standard.
.IP \[bu] 2
To change the assigned values for a property for some characters already in the standard.
.RE
.PP
While the Unicode Consortium tries to keep the values of all character properties as stable as possible between versions, occasionally circumstances may arise which require changing them.
.TS
tab(;);
l l.
\fBFunctions\fR;\fBDescription\fR
_
\fBuni_gc\fR(3);T{
General category.
T}
\fBuni_ccc\fR(3);T{
Canonical combining class.
T}
\fBuni_is\fR(3);T{
Binary property value.
T}
\fBuni_numval\fR(3);T{
Numeric property.
T}
\fBuni_tolower\fR(3);T{
Simple lower case mapping.
T}
\fBuni_totitle\fR(3);T{
Simple title case mapping.
T}
\fBuni_toupper\fR(3);T{
Simple upper case mapping.
T}

.T&
l l.
\fBEnumerations\fR;\fBDescription\fR
_
\fBunigc\fR(3);T{
General category.
T}
\fBunibp\fR(3);T{
Binary properties.
T}
.TE
.SS Compression
Lossless data compression algorithms, like
.UR https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lempel%E2%80%93Ziv%E2%80%93Welch
LZW
.UE ,
perform compression by deduplicating repetitions within a data stream.
These algorithms are general purpose and are designed to operate on "bags of bytes" without any prior knowledge or assumptions about the structure or semantics of the data.
.PP
Unicode Technical Report #34 defines two algorithms designed specifically for the compression of Unicode encoded text.
These algorithms are Standard Compression Scheme for Unicode (SCSU) and Binary Ordered Compression for Unicode (BOCU).
These algorithms leverage knowledge of the Unicode character set and beat general purpose compression algorithms for shorter strings.
Both algorithms are intended for short to medium length Unicode strings (about several hundred characters in length).
Once strings become longer and include many repetitions, then a general purpose compressor is preferable.
.PP
Unicorn implements the BOCU-1 algorithm.
Support for it can be enabled in the JSON configuration file.
.PP
.in +4n
.EX
{
    "algorithms": {
        "compression": true
    }
}
.EE
.in
.PP
The BOCU-1 algorithm is deterministic: the same input text is encoded identically by all encoders which makes it suitable for interchange.
BOCU-1 is a MIME compatible Unicode compression scheme.
That means it can be used directly in emails and similar protocols.
It is ideal for transmitting short messages over a network or writing to persistent storage.
.PP
With BOCU-1, text in languages with Latin-based scripts take about the same amount of space as with UTF-8, while texts in all other languages take about 25%-60% less space.
Compared to UTF-16, texts in all languages with small character repertoires take approximately half as much space in BOCU-1.
For large character sets, i.e. Chinese/Japanese/Korean, texts are about the same size for UTF-16 and BOCU-1.
.PP
BOCU-1 is an IANA registered charset and has its own BOM: \f[C]0xFB 0xEE 0x28\f[R].
Unicorn's implementation does not prepend the BOM and its decompressor will ignore it.
.PP
The BOCU-1 algorithm is documented in
.UR https://www.unicode.org/notes/tn6/
Unicode Technical Note #6
.UE .
.TS
tab(;);
l l.
\fBFunctions\fR;\fBDescription\fR
_
\fBuni_compress\fR(3);T{
Compress text.
T}
\fBuni_decompress\fR(3);T{
Decompress text.
T}
.TE
.SS Text Encodings
The Unicode Standard defines plain text as a sequence of Unicode scalar values.
A Unicode scalar value is any code point excluding surrogate characters (surrogates are used exclusively for encoding UTF-16).
A code point is a 21-bit integer in the Unicode code space used to identify a character.
The Unicode code space defines the range of integers code points can be allocated from.
It starts at integer 0 and goes up to and includes the integer 1114111.
The Unicode Standard version 17.0 defines 159,801 encoded characters.
.PP
In Unicode a character represents what your machine (i.e. your computer) considers to be a character.
It's not necessarily what you, the human, think to be a character.
For example, the END OF LINE (U+000A) character is a control character denoting a line boundary.
A human would never think of this character as being a "character" but the machine does.
What humans perceive as a character is called a grapheme.
Graphemes can be composed of one or more Unicode characters.
The segmentation of characters into graphemes can be performed with the segmentation interface.
.PP
An encoding form defines how a code point is represented in memory.
The Unicode Standard defines three encoding forms for encoding Unicode characters: UTF-8, UTF-16, and UTF-32.
An encoding form uses a bit combination to represent a code point.
The smallest unit of this bit combination is referred to as a code unit.
The Unicode Standard uses 8-bit code units in the UTF-8 encoding form, 16-bit code units in the UTF-16 encoding form, and 32-bit code units in the UTF-32 encoding form.
For example, in UTF-8 the code point \f[C]U+1F6F8\f[R] is represented by four code units, in UTF-16 it's represented by two units, and in UTF-32 it's represented by one code unit.
.PP
UTF-32 is the odd encoding form out because it doesn't really "encode" anything.
Its value is always identical to the value of the code point.
It might be tempting to think of UTF-32 and code points as synonymous, but that would be semantically incorrect: a code point is a 21-bit integer in the Unicode codespace and UTF-32 is a storage standard that says "use a 32-bit integer as the storage for the 21-bit code point."
.PP
Unicorn implements the function \f[B]uni_convert\f[R](3) for converting between Unicode encoding forms.
It also defines the functions \f[B]uni_next\f[R](3), \f[B]uni_prev\f[R](3), and \f[B]uni_encode\f[R](3) for decoding and encoding Unicode scalar values.
.PP
Support for each encoding form is enabled individually in the JSON configuration file.
Where string values "UTF-8", "UTF-16", and "UTF-32" correspond to the \f[B]UNI_UTF8\f[R](3), \f[B]UNI_UTF16\f[R](3), and \f[B]UNI_UTF32\f[R](3) constants, respectively.
.PP
.in +4n
.EX
{
    "encodingForms": [
        "UTF-8",
        "UTF-16",
        "UTF-32"
    ]
}
.EE
.in
.TS
tab(;);
l l.
\fBFunctions\fR;\fBDescription\fR
_
\fBuni_next\fR(3);T{
Decode a scalar value.
T}
\fBuni_prev\fR(3);T{
Decode the previous scalar value.
T}
\fBuni_encode\fR(3);T{
Encode a scalar value.
T}
\fBuni_convert\fR(3);T{
Convert encoding forms.
T}
\fBuni_validate\fR(3);T{
Validate text.
T}
.TE
.SH AUTHOR
.UR https://railgunlabs.com
Railgun Labs
.UE .
.SH INTERNET RESOURCES
The online documentation is published on the
.UR https://railgunlabs.com/unicorn
Railgun Labs website
.UE .
.SH LICENSING
Unicorn is distributed with its end-user license agreement (EULA).
Please review the agreement for information on terms & conditions for accessing or otherwise using Unicorn and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
