.TH "UNICORN" "3" "Dec 6th 2025" "Unicorn 1.3.1"
.SH NAME
unigc \- general category
.SH LIBRARY
Embeddable Unicode Algorithms (libunicorn, -lunicorn)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unicorn.h>
.PP
.B enum unigc {
.RS
.B UNI_UPPERCASE_LETTER,
.B UNI_LOWERCASE_LETTER,
.B UNI_TITLECASE_LETTER,
.B UNI_MODIFIER_LETTER,
.B UNI_OTHER_LETTER,
.B UNI_NONSPACING_MARK,
.B UNI_SPACING_MARK,
.B UNI_ENCLOSING_MARK,
.B UNI_DECIMAL_NUMBER,
.B UNI_LETTER_NUMBER,
.B UNI_OTHER_NUMBER,
.B UNI_CONNECTOR_PUNCTUATION,
.B UNI_DASH_PUNCTUATION,
.B UNI_OPEN_PUNCTUATION,
.B UNI_CLOSE_PUNCTUATION,
.B UNI_INITIAL_PUNCTUATION,
.B UNI_FINAL_PUNCTUATION,
.B UNI_OTHER_PUNCTUATION,
.B UNI_MATH_SYMBOL,
.B UNI_CURRENCY_SYMBOL,
.B UNI_MODIFIER_SYMBOL,
.B UNI_OTHER_SYMBOL,
.B UNI_SPACE_SEPARATOR,
.B UNI_LINE_SEPARATOR,
.B UNI_PARAGRAPH_SEPARATOR,
.B UNI_CONTROL,
.B UNI_FORMAT,
.B UNI_SURROGATE,
.B UNI_PRIVATE_USE,
.B UNI_UNASSIGNED,
.RE
.B };
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
A code point only has one assigned General Category.
See \f[B]uni_gc\f[R](3) for details on retrieving any character's general category.
.SH CONSTANTS
.TP
.BR UNI_UPPERCASE_LETTER
Examples of uppercase letters include:
.IP
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
Latin Capital Letter A (\f[C]U+0041\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
Cyrillic Capital Letter Rha (\f[C]U+0516\f[R])
.RE
.TP
.BR UNI_LOWERCASE_LETTER
Examples of lowercase letters include:
.IP
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
Latin Small Letter B (\f[C]U+0062\f[R]).
.IP \[bu] 2
Greek Small Letter Epsilon (\f[C]U+03B5\f[R]).
.RE
.TP
.BR UNI_TITLECASE_LETTER
Ligatures containing uppercase followed by lowercase letters Some examples include:
.IP
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
Latin Capital Letter D with Small Letter Z (\f[C]U+01F2\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
Latin Capital Letter N with Small Letter J (\f[C]U+01CB\f[R])
.RE
.TP
.BR UNI_MODIFIER_LETTER
A letter or symbol typically written next to another letter that it modifies in some way.
They generally function like diacritics, changing the sound-values of the letter it is next to (usually the letter preceding it but sometimes the following letter instead).
Like combining marks, they are often used in technical phonetic transcriptional systems to make phonetic distinction
.IP
Examples of modifier letters include:
.IP
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
Modifier Letter Small J (\f[C]U+01F2\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
Modifier Letter Acute Accent (\f[C]U+02CA\f[R])
.RE
.TP
.BR UNI_OTHER_LETTER
An ideogram or ideograph is a graphic symbol that represents an idea or concept.
For example, Chinese characters.
.IP
Unicase alphabets are alphabets with just one case for its letters.
For example, Arabic, Telugu, and Hangul.
.IP
Examples of specific code points include:
.IP
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
Arabic Letter Hah (\f[C]U+062D\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
Hebrew Letter Tsadi (\f[C]U+05E6\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
CJK Unified Ideograph-3401 (\f[C]U+3401\f[R])
.RE
.TP
.BR UNI_NONSPACING_MARK
A combining mark is a code point that is intended to modify another character.
.IP
Examples of specific code points include:
.IP
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
Combining Acute Accent (\f[C]U+0301\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
Arabic Sign Takhallus (\f[C]U+0614\f[R])
.RE
.TP
.BR UNI_SPACING_MARK
A combining mark is a code point that is intended to modify another character.
.IP
Examples of specific code points include:
.IP
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
Bengali Vowel Sign Ai (\f[C]U+09C8\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
Hangul Double Dot Tone Mark (\f[C]U+302F\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
Musical Symbol Combining Flag-3 (\f[C]U+1D170\f[R])
.RE
.TP
.BR UNI_ENCLOSING_MARK
A combining mark is a code point that is intended to modify another character.
.IP
Examples of specific code points include:
.IP
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
Combining Enclosing Diamond (\f[C]U+20DF\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
Combining Enclosing Circle Backslash (\f[C]U+20E0\f[R])
.RE
.TP
.BR UNI_DECIMAL_NUMBER
A code point representing a single digit.
Examples include:
.IP
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
Digit One (\f[C]U+0031\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
Arabic-Indic Digit Four (\f[C]U+0664\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
Brahmi Digit Nine (\f[C]U+1106F\f[R])
.RE
.TP
.BR UNI_LETTER_NUMBER
A numeral composed of letters or letter-like symbols.
.IP
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
Roman Numeral Seven (\f[C]U+2166\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
Bamum Letter Ten (\f[C]U+A6EA\f[R])
.RE
.TP
.BR UNI_OTHER_NUMBER
All other numeric characters that do not represent digits or letter-like numeric characters.
For example, vulgar fractions, superscript and subscript digits.
Specific code points include:
.IP
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
Vulgar Fraction One Quarter (\f[C]U+00BC\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
Superscript Three (\f[C]U+00B3\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
Subscript Nine (\f[C]U+2089\f[R])
.RE
.TP
.BR UNI_CONNECTOR_PUNCTUATION
A code point representing a connecting punctuation mark, like an underscore.
Examples include:
.IP
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
Low Line (\f[C]U+005F\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
Character Tie (\f[C]U+2040\f[R])
.RE
.TP
.BR UNI_DASH_PUNCTUATION
Examples include:
.IP
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
Hyphen-Minus (\f[C]U+002D\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
Em Dash (\f[C]U+2014\f[R])
.RE
.TP
.BR UNI_OPEN_PUNCTUATION
A code point representing an opening punctuation mark.
Most have a corresponding closing punctuation mark.
For example, Left Parenthesis (\f[C]U+0028\f[R]) and Right Parenthesis (\f[C]U+0028\f[R]).
.IP
Examples include:
.IP
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
Left Parenthesis (\f[C]U+0028\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
Left Square Bracket (\f[C]U+005B\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
Left Curly Bracket (\f[C]U+007B\f[R])
.RE
.TP
.BR UNI_CLOSE_PUNCTUATION
A code point representing a closing punctuation mark.
Most have a corresponding opening punctuation mark.
For example, Right Parenthesis (\f[C]U+0028\f[R]) and Left Parenthesis (\f[C]U+0028\f[R]).
.IP
Examples include:
.IP
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
Right Parenthesis (\f[C]U+0029\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
Right Square Bracket (\f[C]U+005D\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
Right Curly Bracket (\f[C]U+007D\f[R])
.RE
.TP
.BR UNI_INITIAL_PUNCTUATION
A code point representing an opening quotation mark.
Most have a corresponding closing quotation mark.
For example, Left Single Quotation Mark (\f[C]U+2018\f[R]) and Right Single Quotation Mark (\f[C]U+2019\f[R]).
.IP
Examples include:
.IP
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
Left Single Quotation Mark (\f[C]U+2018\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
Left Double Quotation Mark (\f[C]U+201C\f[R])
.RE
.TP
.BR UNI_FINAL_PUNCTUATION
A code point representing a closing quotation mark.
Most have a corresponding opening quotation mark.
For example, Right Single Quotation Mark (\f[C]U+2019\f[R]) and Left Single Quotation Mark (\f[C]U+2018\f[R]).
.IP
Examples include:
.IP
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
Right Single Quotation Mark (\f[C]U+2019\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
Right Double Quotation Mark (\f[C]U+201D\f[R])
.RE
.TP
.BR UNI_OTHER_PUNCTUATION
A code point representing a punctuation mark that does not fit in with any other punctuation mark categories.
For example, a period (\f[C]U+002E\f[R]) and exclamation point (\f[C]U+0021\f[R]) which are punctuation marks to terminate sentences.
.IP
Examples of other punctuation marks include:
.IP
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
Question Mark (\f[C]U+003F\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
Semicolon (\f[C]U+003B\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
Section Sign (\f[C]U+00A7\f[R])
.RE
.TP
.BR UNI_MATH_SYMBOL
A code point representing a mathematical symbol.
This does not include parentheses and brackets, which are in categories \f[C]Ps\f[R] and \f[C]Pe\f[R].
This also does not include \f[C]!\f[R], \f[C]*\f[R], \f[C]-\f[R], or \f[C]/\f[R], which despite frequent use as mathematical operators, are primarily considered to be punctuation.
.IP
Examples of mathematical code points:
.IP
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
Plus Sign (\f[C]U+002B\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
Division Sign (\f[C]U+00F7\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
Subset of or Equal To (\f[C]U+2286\f[R])
.RE
.TP
.BR UNI_CURRENCY_SYMBOL
A code point representing a currency sign.
Examples include:
.IP
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
Dollar Sign (\f[C]U+0024\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
Pound Sign (\f[C]U+00A3\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
Yen Sign (\f[C]U+00A5\f[R])
.RE
.TP
.BR UNI_MODIFIER_SYMBOL
Examples include:
.IP
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
Cedilla (\f[C]U+00B8\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
Greek Koronis (\f[C]U+1FBD\f[R])
.RE
.TP
.BR UNI_OTHER_SYMBOL
A code point representing a symbol that cannot be categorized as another symbol type.
Examples include:
.IP
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
Copyright Sign (\f[C]U+00A9\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
Check Mark (\f[C]U+2713\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
Braille Pattern Dots-4578 (\f[C]U+28D8\f[R])
.RE
.TP
.BR UNI_SPACE_SEPARATOR
A code point representing a space separator.
These code points typically do not have a graphical representation.
.IP
Examples include:
.IP
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
Space (SP) (\f[C]U+0020\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
Em Quad (\f[C]U+2001\f[R])
.RE
.TP
.BR UNI_LINE_SEPARATOR
At this time, only Line Separator (\f[C]U+2028\f[R]) has this category.
.TP
.BR UNI_PARAGRAPH_SEPARATOR
At this time, only Paragraph Separator (\f[C]U+2029\f[R]) has this category.
.TP
.BR UNI_CONTROL
A control character may be described as doing something when the user inputs them, such as a code 3 (End-of-Text character, ETX, ^C) to interrupt the running process, or a code 4 (End-of-Transmission character, EOT, ^D), used to end text input or to exit a Unix shell.
.IP
Some programming languages, like C, use NUL (\f[C]U+0000\f[R]) to mark the end of a string.
.IP
Examples include:
.IP
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
<Null> (NUL) (\f[C]U+0000\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
<Line Tabulation> (VT) (\f[C]U+000B\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
<Carriage Return> (CR) (\f[C]U+000D\f[R])
.RE
.TP
.BR UNI_FORMAT
Includes the soft hyphen, joining control characters (zwnj and zwj), control characters to support bi-directional text, and language tag characters
.IP
Specific examples include:
.IP
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
Soft Hyphen (SHY) (\f[C]U+00AD\f[R])
.IP \[bu] 2
Arabic Number Sign (\f[C]U+0600\f[R])
.RE
.TP
.BR UNI_SURROGATE
Surrogate characters are only used in UTF-16.
They are used to address characters outside the initial Basic Multilingual Plane without resorting to more than 16-bit byte representations.
.TP
.BR UNI_PRIVATE_USE
Private use characters are characters reserved by the Unicode Standard, but not assigned any meaning.
Instead, individuals, organizations, software vendors, operating system vendors, font vendors and communities of end-users are free to use them as they see fit.
Within closed systems, these characters can operate unambiguously, allowing such systems to represent characters or glyphs not defined in Unicode.
.TP
.BR UNI_UNASSIGNED
Unassigned code points belong to the Other category.
An example of an unassigned code point is \f[C]U+2F35F\f[R].
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR uni_gc (3)
.SH AUTHOR
.UR https://railgunlabs.com
Railgun Labs
.UE .
.SH INTERNET RESOURCES
The online documentation is published on the
.UR https://railgunlabs.com/unicorn
Railgun Labs website
.UE .
.SH LICENSING
Unicorn is distributed with its end-user license agreement (EULA).
Please review the agreement for information on terms & conditions for accessing or otherwise using Unicorn and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
