.TH "UNICORN" "3" "Feb 18th 2025" "Unicorn 1.0.5"
.SH NAME
unistat \- status code
.SH LIBRARY
Embeddable Unicode Algorithms (libunicorn, -lunicorn)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unicorn.h>
.PP
.B enum unistat {
.RS
.B UNI_OK,
.B UNI_DONE,
.B UNI_NO_MEMORY,
.B UNI_NO_SPACE,
.B UNI_BAD_ENCODING,
.B UNI_BAD_OPERATION,
.B UNI_FEATURE_DISABLED,
.B UNI_MALFUNCTION,
.RE
.B };
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Most functions in the Unicorn library return an element of this enumeration.
Of the elements, only \f[B]UNI_OK\f[R] and \f[B]UNI_DONE\f[R] represent a success status whereas the others represent failures.
.SH CONSTANTS
.TP
.BR UNI_OK
Represents the successful execution of an operation.
.TP
.BR UNI_DONE
Represents the successful completion of an operation.
An example of a function that returns this status code is \f[B]uni_next\f[R](3) which returns it when the end of the input string has been reached.
.TP
.BR UNI_NO_MEMORY
Functions that can dynamically allocate memory will list this constant as one of their potential return values.
Functions that omit this constant as a return value do not perform dynamic memory allocation.
.TP
.BR UNI_NO_SPACE
This failure code indicates the destination buffer is too small to receive the content and therefore a larger buffer must be used.
.TP
.BR UNI_BAD_ENCODING
This failure code indicates a malformed character sequence was encountered when decoding text.
Examples of malformed character sequences would be overlong sequences in UTF-8 or unpaired surrogate characters in UTF-16.
.TP
.BR UNI_BAD_OPERATION
This failure code is returned by functions when they are called with invalid arguments.
For example, a function might return this code when given a null pointer when a non-null pointer was expected.
.TP
.BR UNI_FEATURE_DISABLED
This failure code indicates the requested operation cannot be performed because the feature is disabled.
Unicorn allows consumers to customize the Unicode features it’s built with.
This is useful for reducing the footprint of the library.
If a user attempts to call a function that uses a disabled feature of the library, then this status code will be returned.
.TP
.BR UNI_MALFUNCTION
This failure code indicates a defect with the implementation.
In a working version of Unicorn, an application will never see this status code.
If an application does encounter this code, it means there is a bug in Unicorn.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR uni_next (3)
.SH AUTHOR
.UR https://railgunlabs.com
Railgun Labs
.UE .
.SH INTERNET RESOURCES
The online documentation is published on the
.UR https://railgunlabs.com/unicorn
Railgun Labs website
.UE .
.SH LICENSING
Unicorn is distributed with its end-user license agreement (EULA).
Please review the agreement for information on terms & conditions for accessing or otherwise using Unicorn and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
