.TH "UNICORN" "3" "Jan 14th 2026" "Unicorn 1.3.2"
.SH NAME
unistrength \- collation comparison levels
.SH LIBRARY
Embeddable Unicode Algorithms (libunicorn, -lunicorn)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unicorn.h>
.PP
.B enum unistrength {
.RS
.B UNI_PRIMARY,
.B UNI_SECONDARY,
.B UNI_TERTIARY,
.B UNI_QUATERNARY,
.RE
.B };
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Unicode collation algorithm is a multilevel comparison algorithm.
The number of levels that are considered in comparison is known as the collation strength.
This enumeration defines constants for each level.
.PP
In comparing two strings, the most important feature is the identity of the base letters.
For example, the difference between an A and a B. If the base letters differ, accent differences are typically ignored.
If the base letters or their accents differ, case differences (uppercase versus lowercase) are typically ignored.
.SH CONSTANTS
.TP
.BR UNI_PRIMARY
Represents differences in the base letter or symbol.
.TP
.BR UNI_SECONDARY
Represents differences in accents.
.TP
.BR UNI_TERTIARY
Represents differences in case or variants of symbols.
.TP
.BR UNI_QUATERNARY
Represents differences in punctuation.
.SH AUTHOR
.UR https://railgunlabs.com
Railgun Labs
.UE .
.SH INTERNET RESOURCES
The online documentation is published on the
.UR https://railgunlabs.com/unicorn
Railgun Labs website
.UE .
.SH LICENSING
Unicorn is distributed with its end-user license agreement (EULA).
Please review the agreement for information on terms & conditions for accessing or otherwise using Unicorn and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
